[Music]
so your smartphone is effectively an mp3
player portable gaming console TV and
netbook all in one small package no
wonder it needs a ton of energy to power
up so it's battery better be good what
can we do to make it last
certainly not charge it all night long
it's a basic thing you want your phone
fully charged in the morning so it'll
last through the entire day away from
the comfort of your home been there done
that
and even with cutting-edge smart phones
that can charge the max capacity in a
matter of an hour there's no guarantee
that you'll remember to charge it in the
morning while you're in a sleepy days
advise to leave your phone
unplugged during the night may seem
risky and counterintuitive the worst
fear here is that your phone will charge
down while you sleep and won't see the
dawn of a new day to wake you up like
you're used to frankly it sounds like a
horror story to me but still you can't
go against the Word of Science leaving
your smartphone on a charger is bad for
it it's bad for the battery's lifespan
most modern devices use lithium based
batteries even though they are
rechargeable by nature and made with
this process in mind they're highly
vulnerable that constant interactions
with high-voltage electricity like in
the outlets of your house just imagine
if you're leaving your phone on a
charger overnight every night for a year
it'll spend more than three months total
in contact with raw electricity this
amount of stress on a battery will
inevitably diminish its capacity you'd
be lucky if your smartphone lasted for a
little over a year in this case
thankfully it's not all that bad because
manufacturers know about this issue and
try their best to avoid the damage for
example there are automatic switches on
your phone that'll stop the charging
process the very moment it reaches 100%
it seems like that would solve the whole
problem but it's not that easy you see
when your phone naturally goes down to
99% the charging will start all over
again your phone goes from 99 to 100%
charged and back many times during just
one night and this too can degrade the
battery
another thing you might take notice of
is your phone charger I know they seem
to be simple tiny plastic gimmicks to
convert energy from an outlet to a USB
plug but if you pay close attention in a
tech shop you'll notice some of them
cost a bit more than others good high
quality Chargers have special chips in
them that prevent overcharging so it's
advisable not to skimp on chargers this
way you won't spend much more money on a
new battery or an entire smartphone to
soon
and what about charging cables they're
also not just pieces of wire you know
cheap cables aren't compatible with
features like a quick charge which is
available on most modern devices in some
form but in some cases it's worse than
that a poorly manufactured cable could
cause a short and then your smartphone
would be fried on a whim Oh
my order yes I'd like fried smartphone
some fries with that and a diet coke
please
overall it's always advisable to use
good quality tech when it comes to
something as expensive as smartphones
these days but even all these
reinforcements combined can't completely
protect your smartphone and allow you to
charge it for as long as you want
these small charges and discharges
between 99 and 100% will still occur and
the problem with them is that they'll
heat up your phone
heat is bad for batteries that's why
it's so harmful for your phone if you
leave it in a closed car in the middle
of summer it'll be all laggy and slow
until you cool it down a battery left on
the charge may produce heat but from the
inside of the phone's body which is
arguably even more destructive in the
long term you can always ease this
detrimental process by taking your
device out of the phone case when you're
charging it but that won't completely
solve the problem there's also some
other advice going around the internet
that I'll have to disprove as myths and
nothing more for example you've probably
heard something about fully depleting
the charge of your smart phone and then
charging it to the maximum capacity for
the present day this advice is almost
completely obsolete this is fair for
devices from the past decade because
they were using a different kind of
battery
which were based on cadmium instead of
lithium these batteries had a real
problem with memory not that kind of
memory it was more like the amount of
charge was memorized by the battery if
it was charged to 30% regularly it would
be easy to get it to that amount but
hard to charge it beyond it have you
ever gotten so lazy you can't even eat
huh are you kidding well that's kind of
what was happening to those batteries
this effect was also called a lazy
battery effect clever name you think any
modern lithium-ion battery won't get
lazy like a cadmium based one so you
don't have to worry about that as is the
case with the notion that the first
charge should be a longer one this is
about cadmium batteries too and based on
the same problem I just mentioned for a
long time there was little to no major
breakthroughs in the way we power our
devices at least no sensible progress
the power of batteries grew to
accommodate our devices which needed
more and more power but the sizes have
decreased leaving less space to hold the
battery so the advances in engineering
new ways to manufacture batteries hasn't
stopped scientists and engineers promise
that soon we'll have another kind of
lithium based battery that will be able
to charge in a matter of minutes and
lasts for more than one day and that's
not the most insane new ID on the list
can you predict what it might be tell me
about the battery of your dreams in the
comments but now let's move on as you
already know wireless charging is a
thing now but it seems like scientists
are ready to push it a step further one
of their new ideas is to make battery
chargers that can produce energy from a
Wi-Fi signal the very thing that was
making us spend the charge of our smart
phones will also charge them in the
future
and how about charging a phone with a
sound using piezo electric principles
tiny nano generators will be able to
transform the surrounding sound to
electric power even your voice will be a
good source of energy charging a phone
while talking on it yes please guess
that'd be good news for service
providers huh scientists from Japan are
in the middle of a decades-long study
that will allow replacing lithium-ion
batteries with sodium the main
difference between those elements is
that lithium is quite rare and expensive
while sodium is literally everywhere
it's one of the most widespread elements
on earth and batteries like that
wouldn't be only more efficient but also
cheaper another idea is to use literal
sand in batteries now not quite literal
though as this battery will use silicon
the main component of the sand thinned
down to nano silicon structures this
element will be much more efficient in a
battery than the graphite that used now
and now to more expensive stuff how
about gold batteries no actually it's
nanotubes made of gold in batteries
where energy transfers through the gel
will be so sturdy that the battery won't
ever degrade at all with a battery like
this one you'd be able to charge your
phone however and for as long as you
like but for now the best course of
action is to use good quality charging
equipment keep your smart phone out of
the heat and most importantly keep the
charge in it between 30 and 90 percent
don't starve it and don't over charge it
and your smart phone will serve you for
years to come or until the new whiz-bang
model that you just have to have comes
out hey if you learn something new today
then give the video a like and share it
with a friend and here are some other
cool videos I think you'll enjoy just
click to the left or right and remember
stay on the bright side of life